
---
layout: test
title: Security+
---

So today I'm going to get started setting up a SIEM in a virtual machine. Unfortunately, I won't be able to use the Kali Linux VM that I set up which I mentioned 
in a previous post. The computer I had at the time bricked, and my new one has Windows 11 Home. The Home version doesn't support Hyper-V, so this time I'm going to 
try VMware. Looks like you have to create an account with Broadcom to download it.

I'll download VMware Workstation Pro 26H1 for Windows. It didn't take long to download, but when I started the installation, it said "The installer detected that 
the host has Hyper-V or Device/Credential Guard enabled, so virtual machines will be run using Windows Hypervisor Platform. Nested virtualization will not be 
available." Hopefully that won't be a major problem.

Now I'll download a Wazuh virtual machine image. It's in the OVA format. It's a larger file size at about four gigs. Now I just need to click File and Open in the 
VMware Workstation window. I'm confirming that in the settings for the VM, the Network Adapter setting is set to Bridged.

Okay, so I tried booting up the VM, and it appeared to be working at first, but I got an error message that "The CPU has been disabled by the guest operating system. 
Power off or reset the virtual machine." Just restarting it gives me the same issue. I'll try adjusting the settings for the VM from 4 processors to 2, and 8 GB 
memory to 4 GB. That got rid of the error message when starting it up, but now it's just stuck on the Wazuh splash screen.

After doing some research, it seems my laptop with its 8 GB of RAM isn't equipped to handle the virtual machine I was trying to run. I'm going to have to try 
something else. I'll switch to my gaming laptop that has 16 GB of RAM, but maybe I'll be okay sending the simulated attack from my work laptop.

The default settings for the VM seem to work fine! I logged in to the Wazuh server, ran ifconfig, entered the IP in my web browser, and logged in to the Wazuh 
dashboard. So it seems I have an operational SIEM.

I'm going to stop there. A good next step would be simulating an attack and seeing how the setup handles it, but this should be enough for one blog post for now.
